>> Brian Holt: We're gonna get into
the various render modes of React,
We're kinda ramp up into
React server components.
I'm gonna argue, kinda four different
modalities of writing React, and
I call them render modes that's just a
term that I threw out there it's not like
an official React term here.
And the other thing that can be kind of
confusing about this is you can kind of
mix and match of these so
that they're not really all
mutually exclusive to each other.
So don't think of it as like four
different verticals it's just four
different techniques that sometimes
can mix and sometimes can't.
The first one that we're not going to
do together, because it's literally
the entire point of the complete intro
to React v9 is client-side react.
You did it, hopefully by the time you got
here that this is not the first time I've
written React, that's client-side React.
You ship an entire Javascript
bundle down to a webpage,
it gets run by V8 or Spidermonkey or
Javascript Core, there it is,
or something like that and
it renders the app out to the page, right?
It's kind of like the traditional spa, the
single page application, kind of approach.
I'm terming that client side React again,
I don't think that's an official term,
maybe just the obvious term for it.
Your server does nothing for you, all it
does is just, it ships some index, dot,
HTML file with a JavaScript bundle and
everything all the magic
happens client side.
So this is the way that we've written
React for a very, very long time,
on ten plus years, and we will continue
writing React like this for a very,
very long time.
The point that I want you to take away is
everything that I'm about to show you on
the server side stuff It's all optional.
It's all opt-in and
you should have a reason for
adopting these techniques, you shouldn't
just say like, server components,
they're out now I guess I have
to write server components.
Server components should be answering
a problem that you have and
same with everything I'm about to
show you, like server-side rendering.
There should be a reason that you're doing
it, you should measure it, and you should
make sure that's actually solving
the problem that you want it to solve aaid
differently It's not just it's not just
a slam dunk win every single time, right?
It's a tool that should be measured,
that's why I put this like not so
hot take here.
Start with client side,
React on all of your projects,
unless you know that you need Next, or
you're just already shipping next maybe
there's no reason to adopt
some of these things.
Yeah, they're all contextual
performance enhancements, so
you should make sure it
helps whenever you ship it.
And you should actually make sure that
you have a need for the performance that
you're about to ship because it introduces
a decent amount of complexity to your app.
So that's my hot take is you
don't need to nextify everything,
you should nextify some things,
probably, but not all of the things.
And to be abundantly clear, I love next,
I actually really enjoy it as a product.
This entire course that you're
looking at is a next app, right?
I ship it at Neon,
I shipped it to previous companies,
Vercel is one of my closest
partners at Neon, right?
Legitimately very much enjoy it so,
don't take this as me rating on next.
Okay, I have a lot of feelings.
Okay, that's just really, what I'm trying
to say is I got a lot of feelings.
And thanks for being group therapy for me.
Okay, so we're gonna write
kind of the original ways
of doing React server-side components.
We're gonna start with SSG and
then we're going to move on to SSR,
static site generation and
server site rendering.
So, yeah, fun fact, this entire
website is done with SSG with next js,
which I think it's really cool.
They didn't really have to build SSG
into next js, but they did so you can.
So if you click on this, is the repo for
the actual app itself, and
the magic really happens here
in this next Config, I think.
Yeah, this port, export that line
right there I know it's tiny.
This line right there basically says,
I want you to just render everything and
put it into the directory that
can be served statically and
then it's all shipped to GitHub pages,
right?
So, what's nice about all of these course
websites is they don't have to pay for
the Any of them,
which is great thank you, Github.
I essentially just described exactly
what static site generation is, right?
I have a bunch of code or I have
a bunch of content that's relatively,
we'll call it inert, Inert meaning
that it's not really interactive.
This is just a content website
that you're looking at, right?
It's just a bunch of texts that, and
I wanted to have common pages and
really in reality, what I wanted is that
I wanna write everything marked down and
I wanna to end up in nice looking webpage.
That is 100% of why I built
this all with next js.
So it's just for static content if
you're doing a marketing sites or
tutorial sites or anything, it's just
text on a page or images on a page and
there's not really any interactivity
to it SSG is exactly what you want.
And there's some way to kind of,
you can sprinkle a little React
interactivity on top of it there's all
sorts of really cool hybrid methodologies.
This site in particular
you can see there's, like,
no interactivity to it, right?
It's basically just functionally,
just HTML,
we're gonna build that by hand together.
So what I want you to do,
you can open a terminal here,
I'm just gonna do it on my desktop.
Deskto, desktop, okay, and
I'm just gona make dir, and
we're gonna call it SSG,
and we go into SSG, and
then I'm gonna to say, npm,
init-y you can, if you leave off the -y.
You can answer all the questions like,
what's this called?
What license is this and I am not about
that life, I just like generate me
a package.JSON, I do not care what's
in it, we are going to run npm install.
I'm or just i, if you're trying to
save calories on finger strokes,
I'm gonna say React.
You can say React at 19 if you want to,
if you're watching this in the future,
if React 20 is out, then hopefully I'm
coming back soon to teach React 20 but
feel free to just say React and
React DOM at 19.
Okay, I'm gonna open this in my
VScode editor, so you can see
here I have React and react DOM installed
here I have a package lock file.
So far so
good we're gonna be kind of weaving in and
out of common js and es module.
The reason being for
that is, sometimes switching back and
forth between ES modules and common js,
which is the two different ways
of packaging apps and node js.
Is just really it requires so much
boilerplate code to get all the things
connected together that I decided it was
just gonna be easier for me to just say,
for this part, we're gonna do ES modules,
for this part,
we're gonna do common js,
so that's just why.
I promise that whenever I can,
I use ES modules.
For this one, we can use ES modules so
we're gonna say type module if you don't
know what those are,
I'll talk about them momentarily.
But this is basically saying you can use
the import Syntax instead of the required
syntax for for node JS.
And in particular for this one, we're not
gonna do JSX cuz we're just gonna skip
doing Babel altogether
to keep this really,
really simple because the React code is
actually not the interesting part of this,
that's the node code that's
kind of interesting about this.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and by not doing
JSX we don't have to have Babel, veat,
Webpack, any of those
things involved here,
we can just write it all in vanilla,
no JS.
All right, we're gonna create another file
here, it's gonna be called index.html,
you can put whatever you want in here,
I'm just gonna put html:5.
This is just like a very, yeah,
html:5, this is called emmett,
which is kind of a dead
art now because of AI,
but I still use it out of
just pure muscle memory.
If you do html:5, then,
just hit Enter here,
you'll get this just
empty shell of an app.
You can really delete these
top two lines here as well and
I'm just going to call this like
React SSG or something like that.
Okay, and then we're gonna
put a div ID equals root and
then we're gonna put a special comment in
here that looks something like that.
All right, so you might look at,
what the hell is this?
These two things put together like that,
and
then my font combines all four
glyphs into one mega glyph.
So it's an HTML comment, right?
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so then we're gonna
split the string on this particular
string here and it makes it really
easy to find, which is why we do that.
In other words, we're going to
replace this with React code.